libnogg: a decoder library for Ogg Vorbis streams
=================================================
Copyright (c) 2014-2020 Andrew Church <achurch@achurch.org>
See the file "COPYING" for conditions on use and redistribution.

Version: 1.15


Overview
--------
libnogg is a library for decoding Ogg Vorbis audio streams, written with
the aims of (1) improved code quality and robustness compared to the
reference libogg and libvorbis libraries, and (2) improved performance
compared to those libraries.

libnogg is based on the public domain stb_vorbis decoder implementation,
available as of this writing at <http://nothings.org/stb_vorbis/>.


Requirements
------------
libnogg is written in pure C99 (with some additional compiler- and
architecture-specific code used to improve performance) and should
compile with any standards-compliant compiler.  The included Makefile is
written for GNU Make and supports building on Linux and other Unix-like
systems, Mac OS X, or Windows (MinGW), using Clang, GCC, or the Intel C
compiler.


Building
--------
On POSIX-compatible systems, libnogg can be built by simply running the
"make" command (or "gmake", if GNU Make is installed under that name on
your system) in the top directory of the libnogg distribution.  This
will create shared and static library files in the top directory, which
can then be installed on the system with "make install".

Several configuration variables are available to control the build
process or specify nonstandard paths for dependent libraries.  These can
be set on the "make" command line; for example, "make ENABLE_ASSERT=1".
See the "Configuration" section at the top of the "Makefile" file for
details.

The Makefile also includes rules for building using Microsoft's Visual
C/C++ compiler, with the following limitations:
   - The build must be run under the Windows Subsystem for Linux (see
     <https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/about>).
   - The CC variable must point to the "cl.exe" compiler binary, and
     "cl.exe" must be in lowercase.  If the compiler is installed in a
     pathname containing a space (such as "Program Files"), the value of
     CC must be quoted; for example: make CC=\''/mnt/c/.../cl.exe'\'
   - The INCLUDE and LIB environment variables must be set as for an
     MSVC command prompt (see the vcvars32.bat and vcvars64.bat scripts
     included with MSVC).
   - Only one of the shared or static library can be built in a single
     call to "make".  By default, the static library is built.
   - Automatic dependency generation is not supported; changes to header
     files will not trigger rebuilds of source files which use them.
   - Coverage analysis is not supported.
   - Building of the nogg-benchmark tool has not been tested.

To build libnogg as part of a project in another build system, add all
files in the libnogg distribution matching the wildcard "src/*/*.c" to
the project.  (It is recommended to use an actual wildcard, or a
recursive reference to the directory "src", if the build system supports
such a feature; this allows the project to automatically pick up files
added in subsequent updates to the library without any changes to the
project configuration.)  The libnogg source files should be configured
to use the C99 language standard if that is not the compiler's default.


Using libnogg
-------------
The file "tools/nogg-decode.c" demonstrates how libnogg can be used to
decode audio data from an Ogg Vorbis stream.

See the documentation in include/nogg.h for further details.


Performance
-----------
The following table shows decoding performance measured by running the
nogg-benchmark tool on the files "tests/data/thingy.ogg" (monaural) and
"tests/data/sketch039.ogg" (stereo), scaled so that the time taken by
the reference decoder (libvorbis) is 1.0; thus, smaller values indicate
better performance.

                                 |    Time (monaural decode)
         Architecture (CPU)      | libvorbis | Tremor | libnogg
    -----------------------------+-----------+--------+---------
    x86_64 (Intel Core i7-4770S) |    1.000  |  1.206 |  0.546
    ARM 32-bit (TI OMAP4460)     |    1.000  |  0.700 |  0.608
    ARM 64-bit (Apple A7)        |    1.000  |  1.311 |  0.783

                                 |     Time (stereo decode)
         Architecture (CPU)      | libvorbis | Tremor | libnogg
    -----------------------------+-----------+--------+---------
    x86_64 (Intel Core i7-4770S) |    1.000  |  1.061 |  0.540
    ARM 32-bit (TI OMAP4460)     |    1.000  |  0.777 |  0.629
    ARM 64-bit (Apple A7)        |    1.000  |  1.164 |  0.609


Caveats
-------
libnogg only decodes the first Ogg bitstream found in the input data.
Interleaved and concatenated bitstreams with different bitstream IDs are
properly detected but will be ignored during decoding.

libnogg does not support lossless deletion of samples from the beginning
of the stream (negative initial sample position).


Reporting bugs
--------------
Please send any bug reports or suggestions directly to the author.
